So stories are a pretty
powerful primitive but
we can actually do a lot more
with them than we've seen so far.
Here's a little app with
a progress meter and
when I click on these buttons it will
change the value of that progress.
We want is for
it to smoothly tween to those values.
And we can do that with
the tween store which we're
gonna import from Svelte
motion is that a spell store?
We're just gonna change
this right here to a tween.
And now in exactly the same API as before,
we have a smoothly tween value.
And all we're doing here
is putting that dollar prefix store name,
as the value of our progress element.
So, that works, but
it kinda feels a little bit robotic.
And that's because we don't have
any easing applied to this motion.
And it's just like interpolating between
two values in a purely linear fashion.
So what we're gonna do is
add an easing function and
svelte has a bunch of easing functions and
readily available for you.
So cubicOut from svelte/easing.
CubicOut is a function that takes
a value between 0 and 1, and
returns another value between 0 and
1 after it's applied the easing,
and it allows us to do, much
nicer motion looks like this.
So now it's fast at the beginning,
then it slows down as it eases
out into its final state.
And you can get a full list of all
of the different easing functions,
which that website is no longer available.
And we can pass more options to tween,
the second argument contain the delay.
In which case,
the tween won't happen immediately.
We can specify the duration as a function.
And you can provide a custom interpolator
if you're tweening between numbers and
objects that have the same shape.
Then Svelte already knows
how to handle those.
But you can add a custom
interpolated that allows you to, for
example, tween between two
strings representing colors.
And all the options that you can pass
in when you create a new tween store.
You can also pass in when you
call tweened.set value options or
tween.update function options.
So you have a lot of flexibility
with how these work.
The spring store is similar to
the tween store except that instead of
passing it an explicit using function and
an explicit duration.
It will use some very basic
physics to do the same thing.
It's a better option for values that
frequently change because whereas with
the twin store, if you set the value while
a tween is happening, it will abruptly
stop and then Changed the new value
with a spring it's continuous motion.
And if you change the value while
it's already in the process of
moving to the new value, then it will
sort of take that into account and
it will move in a much
more natural seeming way.
So, once again, we're gonna import
from the svelte motion package.
We're gonna replace these
writable stores with springs.
I should have shown you what this
looks like without the spring.
Let me just rewind.
So right now we have a writable store
that represents the mouse position.
You can see this little orange dot
just follows the mouse around when
I click the trackpad,
it gets bigger like so.
Which I find that works but we can
make it nicer by using a spring store.
So we're gonna import spring
once again from svelte motion.
Gonna replace writable
with spring right now.
And so now you can see that,
the orange dot,
kind of follows the mouse around a little
bit more slowly and when I click it
gets bigger and smaller with
the same kind of smooth motion.
And those two things are independent so
it can be moving and
it can be getting bigger and
smaller at the same time.
And that works because down
here inside this SVG element.
The circle is again using the name of
the store prefixed with the dollar.
And then it's just taking the x property
and the y property of the code store and
this size value directly.
So just like with the tween store,
we can pass in some options
as the second argument.
So for example,
we can add some stiffness and damping.
They will change how the physics
of of this paper you can see now,
it's a lot kind of spring here.
And we can actually change these values
dynamically, change the stiffness way up,
and I can change the damping way down, and
it'll start to get a little bit silly.
Stiffness down and the damping way up.
So depending on what kinda effect
you're trying to achieve and your UI,
you can customize these values.